1 Select choices about data characteristics that differentiate data warehouses from operational databases.


Data warehouses typically relax normalization levels.


Data warehouses contain only summary data.


Data warehouses queries contain typically involve thousands of rows.


Data warehouses are highly volatile.

Question 2
The performance limitation inhibiting usage of operational databases for higher level decision making was


Missing features for summary data


Inability of a single database to support both transaction processing and business intelligence.


Lack of optimizing compilers


Lack of support for transaction processing.

Question 3
Early DBMSs were lacking which type of feature for business intelligence processing?


Support for transaction processing


Non procedural query languages


Features for summary data retrieval, storage, and optimization


Optimizing compilers


Question 4
The management reason inhibiting deployment of data warehouses was


Lack of integration among operational databases and external data sources


Missing features for summary data


Performance limitations of a single database for transaction processing and business intelligence


Lack of competition in the database industry


Question 5
Relational DBMSs have a dominant position in the market for data warehouse management software because


Highly scalable nature of data cube engines


Performance improvements for data warehouse developed by DBMS vendors


New features for data warehouses developed by DBMS vendors


Dominance of relational DBMSs for operational databases


Question 6
Identify summary data management features for data warehouses


SQL statement to define traditional relational views with derived data that are not stored


Design tools to determine best set of materialized views


Query rewriting to combine materialized views and user queries


SQL statement to define materialized views with derived data that are stored and refreshed


Question 7
Identify parallel processing features for data warehouses


Parallel processing for loading large files


High performance transaction processing


Parallel processing that is not transparent with tedious coding to utilize


Parallel processing for join and summary calculations in queries

Question 8
A constellation schema has multiple fact tables.


True


False


Question 9
The Inventory Data Warehouse used in assignments is a


star schema.


constellation schema.


snowflake schema.


combination of a snowflake and constellation schema.


Question 10
The schema of the Colorado Education Data Warehouse is a


a complex star schema with a single fact table.


a complex snowflake schema with a single fact table.


a simple star schema with a single page schema diagram.


a complex constellation schema with some level of snowflaking and denormalization.


Question 11
The motivation for the Colorado Education Data Warehouse was


a voluntary movement by school districts to share assessments.


a set of lawsuits mandating school districts to share assessment results.


a set of laws mandating accountability for K-12 education in Colorado, USA.


a voluntary movement by parents to share assessments across school districts.



Question 12
Identify major parts of the OMOP Common Data Model.


Health system data


Health economics data


Derived elements for conditions, cohorts, drugs, and dosages


Clinical data



Question 13
Identify choices indicating the relationship of SAFTINet to OMOP.


SAFTINet implemented a subset of the OMOP Common Data Model


SAFTINet developed additional data integration tools and a query portal


SAFTINet populated a subset of the OMOP Common data model with synthetic data


SAFTINet extended the OMOP Common Data Model with new parts


Question 14
Identify accomplishments of SAFTINet.


Extensions of the OMOP Common Data Model with new parts.


Collection of secondary medical data from a broad network of health care organizations, primary care practices, providers, and patients


Collected claims data from multiple USA states


Established governance committees



Question 15
The Scalable Architecture for Federated Translational Inquiries Network (SAFTINet) is a


a single organization data warehouse with mandatory participation by departments.


a federated data warehouse with mandatory participation.


a federated data warehouse with optional participation.


a single organization data warehouse with optional participation by departments.